All right, that should be enough.
You've been up to mischief, Geralt. A nasty mess. I can try swaying the peasants to your side, but it won't be easy...
You mean cheap.
All in all, true. If you demonstrated remorse, paying for the funeral and providing something to the relatives... Say, 500 orens... They're good people, they'll forgive you.
I don't have that much.
Another romantic? I've had enough romanticism and romances. I want a normal, happy life with a normal wife and normal children!!!
I need time to mourn.
Greetings, witcher. I've heard a lot of good things about your kind.
That's rare. Usually people treat me like a leper.
Not in my house. When I was a child I heard many tales of a witcher who saved my grandfather's life in exchange for a silver penny…
That must've been a while back… I'm Geralt.
Oh, yes. In the olden days… I'm Julian, it's a pleasure.
I'm glad to see you!
What happened?
Alina went for a walk in the fields and hasn't returned. I'm losing my mind! Geralt, please help me.
Fine, I'll go look for her.
Thank you!
We'll talk later.
Geralt?
I was supposed to find Alina.
Have you?
Not yet.
I found Alina.
That's wonderful. Is she all right?
Sit down and have a drink… Alina is dead. She has turned into a midday lady, a demon.
Dead?
I know it's hard, but we can't leave this as it is. People will start dying in the fields if I don't do anything about this.
I see. Do what you can. I'll pay you.
It'll be more than a silver penny…
Do what needs to be done, witcher… And if you can, make it quick and painless.
I'll try.
Geralt… How did it happen?
Celina killed her, probably by accident… She's dead, too.
How?
Adam killed her. He was in love with Alina, lost control of himself and &quot;killed&quot; Celina.
By all the gods! That's terrible. So much suffering... What did they do to deserve this fate? Geralt, please help them. And I'll make sure Adam is arrested. He must answer for his crime.
Mhm. I'll do what I can to help the sisters' souls pass on forever.
How did Celina die? Hmm… I'm not sure. She also turned into a demon.
By all the gods! So much suffering... What did they do to deserve this fate? Geralt, please help them. Do everything that is in your powers.
I don't have an answer to that question. But I'll do what I can to help the sisters' souls depart in peace.
I need to speak with Adam if I am to save Alina.
He's under house arrest, but you may speak with him, no one will stop you. Here's the key.
I did what I could to help Alina.
How did it happen?
Alina's soul found peace. Celina… well, there was no way I could help her.
Thank you, Geralt. I'm devastated. I was a happy man just a few days ago. Now…. I don't know, I may go back to Kovir.
Alina's soul rests in peace. Adam unfortunately committed suicide. I have yet to figure out a way to help Celina's soul.
I know how to send Alina's soul away.
Do what's necessary. Come back when it's all over. I don't feel like talking now…
I don't know how to help Alina's soul pass on.
I can't think about this... My poor Alina, I'm sure she suffers terribly. Maybe you should get the advice of the knowing, talk to a witch or the Lady of the Lake.
I've taken Berengar's job, decided to handle this problem myself.
Listen, I'm in the middle of planning my wedding. You have no idea how much time it takes. Come back later.
We have a serious problem. The underwater city is the source of the village's wealth.
A while back a group of our divers went missing. Later we found their boat adrift. Inside… it was a slaughterhouse, witcher. Someone cut them to bits.
Then we learned the vodyanoi worship a monster that thirsts for human blood. They make bloody sacrifices to it on the island. If you eliminated that monstrosity…
Have you tried talking to the vodyanoi?
That makes no sense, they don't understand our language. Anyway, the underwater ruins are of a human city. We're fully entitled to what's there.
Kill Dagon - that's the monster's name. The entire village will be grateful and I'll give you one of my dear granddad's diamonds...
I'll do it.
Dagon emerges from the water when blood runs down the altar. Fishpeople bleed, too, you know…
I'll be looking for a way to let both sides win.
I was suppose to slay Dagon...
How is it going with the vodyanoi?
It's not that simple. I need more time.
I killed Dagon.
Splendid! The fishpeople shouldn't be a problem anymore.
Now it's your turn to meet your obligations.
Ah, it's hard for me to part with it, but an agreement is sacred, the diamond is yours.
An agreement with the vodyanoi is possible.
Think so?
That is the will of the Lady of the Lake. Care to take issue?
No, witcher, I'm no fool...
In that case, I'll need something that symbolizes your devotion to her and your desire to achieve peace with the vodyanoi.
Of course, what shall I give you?
The alabaster figure depicting a young vodyanoi capturing a water elemental.
Here it is. It would have fetched a fine price in Vizima, but peace is more important…
Strawberry.
Geralt...
Peace and prosperity take sacrifice.
Are you kidding?
No.
The diamond.
My granddad's diamond, the sole thing he grabbed as he fled from the monster... I'll miss it. Give it to the Lady of the Lake and let there be peace.
Anyone ask about me?
No... Yes, I almost forgot. The Fisherking. I think he wants to see you.
Thank you. I'll go see him.
Farewell.
Have any work for a witcher?
That's right. We extract antique items from the underwater city. You'd be amazed how much people are willing to pay for them. The fishpeople don't like it. Unfortunately, we've already hired a different witcher…
Another witcher? Who? Where is he?
His name is Berengar, you'll find him in the crypt. I think he's finally gotten to work.
Thanks. We'll talk again about the vodyanoi. I need to speak with Berengar first. Farewell.
I'm here about the notice.
I'll buy any basilisk hides you have. Reptile skin shoes are in fashion in Vizima, you know.
I have 3 hides.
Let me have a look... Undamaged, excellent. Here's your reward.
I'll come and see you if I find any more.
Hurry, no fashion lasts forever.
Tell me the story of your grandfather.
Granddad, may Melitele watch over his soul, had a plot of land. A piece of a rocky, frozen valley in northern Kovir, and a deserted coalmine with no coal. Granddad always said that a treasure was concealed in the valley.
He worked hard every year to discover that treasure. Initially, many gladly took the jobs he offered and helped. But soon it became clear that granddad had gone mad, that there was no treasure.
When he was 47, had rheumatism and a collection of bobolak scalps above his mantle, he was overcome with grief and went outside. He began cursing the heavens, berating all the known gods in the foulest language he knew.
The gods answered. There was a terrible rumble and an avalanche descended on the valley.
Granddad regained consciousness, burrowed out of the snow and looked around to see something that would change his life. The entire valley was glimmering strangely, glimmering so beautifully that he nearly didn't see the beast coming towards him with a heavy gait.
Granddad fled, bending over once to pick up a strangely glimmering stone. In short, he escaped.
Descending form the mountains, he encountered a witcher who agreed to slay the monster in exchange for a silver penny.
They returned to the valley and the witcher slew the beast. He could not help noticing the wealth laying in that valley, yet he demanded nothing beyond the penny promised him earlier.
Granddad grew to trust him and knew that sooner or later someone or something would come along and want to take his treasure, for the treasure in the valley was immense, Geralt. Diamond deposits that took years to extract…
They became partners. The witcher watched the workers, killed monsters, drove off bandits, and granddad managed the business. He's a legend in Kovir, and my family is wealthy and respected... That's the whole story.
What's up?
My fiancée is dead. Slain by her own sister. Bad enough?
I see.
The peasants have something to gossip about - their favorite cow has disappeared. Is that the extent of their problems?
Well...
Our relations with the vodyanoi have improved thanks to your intervention. Good work!
Soon I'll marry the village mayor's daughter, Alina. We're planning our wedding as we speak.
I wanted to ask about Alvin.
He needs a caretaker who is knowledgeable about magic. Neither I nor my future spouse are suited to be his guardian…
I see...
You should train him to be a witcher.
A-hem. I'll think about it. For the time being, I gave him a necklace that blocks his abilities.
You know not what you ask. For the time being, I'll keep an eye on him.
Farewell.
