Thank you again, witcher. Return to the village. Your destiny has yet to be fulfilled…
Welcome, Geralt.
Forgive me, but I do not remember your name.
For you do not know it, but I know you - by reputation.
I should warn you that Dandelion takes many liberties in his ballads… In fact, they're a bunch of nonsense.
I know this, but I have confidence in my source. I heard about you from a far away friend - the mermaid Sheenazz.
Mermaid?
Yes, mermaid. Why are you surprised?
What did Sheenazz tell you?
She described how you headed off a conflict between the Prince of Agloval and the inhabitants of the underwater city of Ys.
Thanks to you and your friends, humans and the vodyanoi of Ys tolerate one another.
That's encouraging, I hope everything is on order here as well…
Sheenazz said you were smart… You shouldn't have trouble orienting yourself. Talk to the vodyanoi chaplain and the human named Julian.
Who are you?
They call me the Lady of the Lake.
Is that uhh… talkative fisherman your servant?
Servant is the wrong term. I'm a woman and women need men, To secure food and protect them, of course.
I see.
In the past hosts of knights in shining armor defended my honor and virtue… But that was long ago. All I have left now is my poor, sickly Fisherking.
Yes?
M'Lady, can you tell me how to send the soul of Alina, a midday lady, into the beyond?
Alina's soul has become a midday lady. She no longer understands who she is nor remembers her past. Her memory is a mass of the memories of all women who died in sun-drenched fields.
How can I restore her identity?
By no small miracle, Alina acquired a fairly rare and powerful artifact. A Nehalena's Mirror. As you know, Nehalena's Mirrors were primarily used by oracles and prophets, for they absolutely accurately, though confusingly, foretell the future. Alina consulted her Mirror pretty frequently...
The usual question: &quot;Who's the fairest of them all?&quot; From what I know, Nehalena's Mirrors can be divided into the polite and the smashed.
Exactly. Alina's was not polite. Do you know now what to do?
I'll try fixing Alina's mirror and showing it to her. The sight of her own reflection should lift the curse…
Excellent. If that does not help, come see me again and I'll tell you how to resolve the matter completely and finally.
Alina was delighted with the mirror. The problem is she doesn't believe she's dead and wants to get ready for her wedding.
You have innocent blood on your hands, so you cannot help Alina's spirit.
Whose blood?
The blood of Abigail, a witch from the outskirts.
I see.
The dead can only hear the dead. In a sense, Alina's spirit has found peace. A sacrifice is needed, the greatest sacrifice. Do you know who is prepared to make it, who you must approach?
The dead only hear the dead… and poetry. Lost souls of the dead become more sensitive than they were in life. Poetry should convince her and halt her long enough for her to see her sister, damned as she is.
Dandelion will be perfect for that.
Good luck, witcher.
M'Lady, is there anything I can do for you?
The peace and order that reigned in my land have been disturbed. The humans and vodyanoi are quarrelling. Greed, fear of others and lack of understanding underlie this conflict.
I assume the quarelling sides each have their informal leaders…
You assume correctly. The vodyanoi priest, you will find him near my statue, is the only vodyanoi you will be able to speak to. While Julian represents the humans.
I'll tend to this.
M'Lady, I have spoken with the vodyanoi chaplain and with Julian. I would like to resolve this matter.
Who do you believe is right?
It's not about who is right. I wish to reconcile these quarrelling races.
To do this, you will need to slay Dagon. But even that will not suffice. Bring me objects symbolizing harmony between humans and the vodyanoi. You should receive these objects from the representatives of both communities as expressions of respect for my humble person.
I'll be back soon.
You will find clues on the nature of these objects on the statue.
M'Lady, look at these objects. Are they what you wanted?
You've done well. Here is a drop of my blood. Pour it onto the altar and challenge Dagon to a duel…
So be it.
I'll think about it.
You have nothing of interest to me. Try harder!
All right, I'll speak to Julian and the chaplain about that.
I was supposed to slay Dagon.
Yes you were, what are you waiting for? Go to the altar and challenge him.
I'm working on it.
I killed Dagon.
Thank you, Geralt. In gratitude, I will grant you a fragment of your own memory. Close your eyes and succumb to my power, and for an instant I will part the curtain of mists, allowing you to recall something of your past abilities.
Thank you, M'Lady… I think I may have recalled something indeed…
If you could, tell the Fisherking that everything went well.
M'Lady, you look pensive.
Sometimes I see the future, witcher. I shall tell you what will be.
I know that destiny has entagled its threads round a witcher. His path leads into a dark future, into sadness and pain. I wish to help that witcher survive this test.
Who is this witcher, M'Lady?
I know only two, you and Berengar. Speak with him, please. And may one of you take up destiny's thread.
I'll speak to Berengar, see what he has to say.
I'm not sure I want to get involved.
I spoke with Berengar. He has no interest in destiny.
It is clear then that my dream was about you, Geralt.
If you say so.
When the moment comes, I shall give you a gift that will help you along your difficult path, white-haired one.
M'Lady, you summoned me…
Yes, I have something for you.
M'Lady, are you content with my actions?
You sent a troubled soul into the beyond…
But an innocent person perished in the process…
True.
You enchanted her with a song and reminded her of who she was…
You have slaid the bloody divinity Dagon…
But you took the side of humans in the conflict of races…
I concluded that to be the best choice.
But you took the side of the vodyanoi in the conflict of races…
And you brought the races together in peace. I am content.
M'Lady, they say I died and returned to the world of the living, but in the process I lost my memory. Can you help me?
I know the land you have returned from and know that you did not return by coincidence. First you must answer a question: do you believe in Destiny?
I believe in Destiny.
In answering my question you have answered your own.
So it is Destiny that has brought me here?
Contrary to what people say, I am not the mistress of Fate. I have seen your past and your future, yet I can speak of neither.
I was hoping for some guidance.
I shall give you some advice, then. If you believe your fate is sealed, have hope and remain yourself. Ieven if you do not know yourself, and impenetrable forces carry you like the wind carries a leaf, it is worth remaining a decent man.
I'll remember you advice, M'Lady.
Good.
I'd like to speak with you some more.
I am master of my own fate.
I trust that in uttering those words you are conscious of their weight. Rejecting Destiny's influence you render yourself responsible for all your actions and choices. The good and the bad.
I accept that responsibility.
You are strong in character. I know for certain now that you will one day regain your identity.
Since you wish to forge your own fate, I shall give you no advice. Know, however, that you have both my blessing and my favor.
Thank you, M'Lady. I have one more question.
I believe in something more.
You are mysterious and confident. You can regain your identity and achieve your aim.
Yet you evade my questions, so let us leave this matter alone. I am not all-knowing and perhaps this &quot;something more&quot; you speak of is more important than a simple choice between Destiny and free will.
My beliefs defy classification. I'd prefer to leave these matters to their course and discuss something else.
M'Lady, I was supposed to do something for you…
Yes, I was expecting you to bring gifts from humans and vodyanoi.
Why the Fisherking?
Hm, Sheenazz called you clever… Yet in your voice I sense that tone so typical of all males, who seem to think that they may treat as their property anyone they have slept with.
M'Lady, I…
You weren't the only one, the best, the biggest…
M'Lady…
Ah, no matter. Males are all alike.
I'm sorry, I didn't intend to anger you, I'll be going…
Take no offense, witcher, you're too old to take offense at insignificant things. Not everyone can be a master of the bedroom…
I'm going.
All right, it wasn't that bad… I was kidding, Now we are even.
M'Lady, what happened to those hosts in shining armor?
I fault the legened of the Holy Grail. My bold knights, I know not why, at some point in their lives appeared before me to state that they must embark on a terribly important mission.
They claimed it was their destiny to find the Holy Grail. You see, Geralt, the problem is I am not all powerful and cannot vanquish destiny. I failed in all my attempts at guiding the poor wretches onto the right path.
I assume the Grail has yet to be found.
You assume correctly. Do you know the legend of the Grail?
I lost my memory…
Yes. I suggest you speak to the hermit. He watches over the graves of the brave seekers of the lost Grail. He is terribly boring but knows the Grail's legend perfectly.
I'll be sure to see him.
If you return here to state that you are embarking on a mission of paramount importance… Believe me, I can be unpleasant.
M'Lady, do you know where I can find the friendly vodianoi priest?
He usually keeps a vigil at my altar on the Shore. Unfortunately, sometimes Dagon's worshippers drive him away from there.
I see.
M'Lady! I have come to tell you that I have had a revelation and am embarking on a miss….
Geralt, I'm warning you…
I was kidding.||Though my conversation with the hermit was very informative and I came to understand some things…
I'd be glad to hear about them.
Soon I will have to depart. I don't know if I'll find my Grail, but I must try…
I know. I shall not keep you.
Thank you… I wanted to say that I understand your sorrow, your solitude… If there is anything I can do to help…
Do not treat me like a goddess. I have enough worshipppers as it is. Yet I lack someone close, someone who would see something more in me than the object of a cult…
M'Lady, they are simple folk. They don't understand…
I know, I know, and I don't hold it agains them. But let's return to you, to my expectations and your desire to help. You can start by paying me a complement…
Hmm, I warn you I'm not very good at this… M'Lady, your wisdom is inferior only to your goodness…
Dammit! Don't feign stupidity. I do not admit the thought that you don't find me attractive. And I would rather blame your unperceptiveness on your famous scruples.
M'Lady, your eyes are like stars glimmering in the night sky…
…Distant and cold? Weak, withcer.
You have the best ass in Temeria.
Haha! Nobody has ever paid me that compliment, and I have a few years behind me. My brave knights only knew how to praise the attributes of my soul, but I well knew what they were staring at…
But enough about them… Geralt, am I to tell you outright what I desire, or can you devine it?
…Misssion of paramount importance. I will find the hallowed cup. I will bring it to the Fisher King. He will be healed and with him the entire land…
You deserve my esteem, Geralt of Rivia. In recognition of your chivalrous deeds I herewith knight you and according to the ancient custom grant you a new name. From this day forward you shall be known as Sir Bonehead!
But M'Lady, I'm not sure you understand…
Don't overdo it, Sir Bonehead. As a goddess, I understand more than you might think.
Set out on your search and bring me another chalice for my collection. I shall not stand in destiny's way. I bod you farewell, none too fondly.
M'Lady, I wanted to speak to you about the Grail.
How is your search progressing, Sir Bonehead?
I was mistaken, m'Lady. I'm a witcher, not a knight in shining armor. I'm not suited to be a seeker of holy relics.
Whatever be your will, Geralt. Yes, you are no longer Sir Bonehead, but you know not how much you have lost…
Farewell.
