You'll regret this!
Not now, I must tend to other things.
You again? They let you into town?
You Leuvaarden the merchant?
In person.
Let's talk.
Yes?
I've figured out Javed. I've figured out Javed. He's using an illusion to masquerade as Raymond. The real detective is dead.
I'm impressed. I understand you have proof.
Incontrovertible. The problem is he remains a very powerful mage.
I can't help you with that. If you could wait… In a short time, an emissary of the Lodge of Sorceresses will be in town.
I can't wait.
In that case, I can only advise you to speak with Kalkstein. He's no mage but has considerable theoretical knowledge. As they say, a bird in the hand…
Let me finish…
Go ahead. I have an ounce of patience left.
Let's summarize the facts…
I'm more curious about your conclusions.
Not all the money you make is clean.
All money stinks. You don't exactly make your living cultivating violets.
Spare me the rhetoric. You bribe guards to turn a blind eye to your contraband.
Contraband wholesale is called importation.
You finance illegal schemes…
That's diversifying risk.
And you're also the member of a secret organization.
A broad network of associates.
Cut your explanations. I can see I'm not looking for you.
And from whence this conclusion?
You're a thoroughbred merchant, Leuvaarden. One so tied up in international business that you can't afford getting involved with some group of subversives.
Why is that?
Because you make money off the status quo. And your dear &quot;associates&quot; would have you eliminated without batting an eye if you did anything stupid enough to threaten the stability of their investments, their money.
Nice analysis. I could employ you as a qualified specialist. And let's drop this topic there.
All right, speak.
I'm sure you're supporting Salamandra.
What? That's slander! You'll regret this! Guards!
Since you don't work with Salamandra, as the evidence suggests, who are you?
A modest, grateful merchant. Allow me to express my gratitude with cash…
Quit bluffing, Declan.
See this symbol? It's the symbol of the organization I belong to. We're also hunting Salamandra.
Learn anything?
The Salamanders have much at stake. This is a political matter, let me yell you…
Some larger scheme is in the works next door, in Redania. Only a few people know this. It's a secret of the highest order. King Foltest, the Lodge of Sorceresses and I are keeping a keen eye on the northern border.
How is that related to Salamandra?
Azar Javed sent a special force north, my people saw them. They're expecting something. He, too, knows something's in the air and is preparing.
I'll be back.
I buried your friend.
What a way to end... Somewhere in some forgotten village…
It was a decent burial. He even has his own sarcophagus.
Well, in that case I can leave for Vizima with a clear conscience.
Forgetting anything?
Ah, right. Here's your 200 orens.
I learned that monsters near the swamp landing are threatening goods shipments. Is that true?
Unfortunately. I take it you're not just curious?
I'm looking for someone who'll pay for their removal.
You've come to the right man. The swamp landing lies in my business zone and I can't deny I've been losing money since those creatures appeared.
Can you describe the beasts that attack your transports?
What's there to describe, I know they're drowners. They appear at night, murdering carriers and destroying goods. I'll pay 400 orens to get rid of them? Price suit you?
Pleasure doing business with you.
I should think so.
I don't want to take this job now. We'll talk later.
The landing is safe now.
Just what I expected when I hired a pro. Here's your payment.
Thanks. Good luck with your business. Farewell.
I suspect you know something about Salamandra.
I don't know what you're talking about, witcher.
We'll see.
Any other crucial questions? Or can I get back to work?
We need to talk about the business you're doing with Salamandra.
I don't do business with Salamandra. Memorize that.
I know you sponsor illegal ventures at times.
Yes, I invest money in illegal schemes occasionally. I pay my taxes, for instance.
What do you mean?
Customs duties and taxes are the real crime, and tax collectors are just bandits. Now, I need to get back to work. Goodbye.
I know you bribe guards.
In any business you need to network with authorities. I give the boys bonuses.
What do you get in return?
I'm doing them a favor. They don't have to slave over my customs declarations.
Right.
Now excuse me, but I need to earn some cash for those bribes.
I know you belong to a secret organization.
Witcher, you're mistaking stars reflected in a pond for the night sky.
I've heard that before somewhere…
Drop it, you might find the answers overwhelming. And I assure you, this has nothing to do with Salamandra.
We'll see about that.
Farewell.
I know you paid to have Phed released.
Humorous. Are you implying I'd hire a criminal?
Why not?
And do it so clumsily as to implicate myself? Come on. Now leave me alone!
I think you're paying for the Salamandra pins. I'm just not sure why you would do that.
What? This is a misunderstanding... I don't know what you're talking about.
You know exactly what I'm talking about. Why so defensive? I'm also hunting Salamandra and I can prove it.
If you're so keen on hunting thugs, bring me three pins. Then we'll talk.
I have three Salamandra pins. Think it might be worth talking to me about the organization?
Splendid. I said I'd pay 20 apiece, but I'll make an exception in your case. You shall get 10 times more.
Great, but I'd really like to know why you're paying bounty hunters to fight bandits.
Let's just say Salamandra is bad for business.
Your business?
Mine among others. Listen, witcher, there are forces beyond your imagination in this world. You couldn't guess how influential they can be. Better to live in blissful ignorance and keep thinking the world is as it looks.
Leuvaarden, I've heard so many lofty speeches recently that yours doesn't impress me in the least. I don't give a shit about your powers, I just want to know how to get at the Salamandra leaders and how to get one Azar Javed.
Wouldn't mind getting Javed myself. If you finish him off, come see me and rest assured you'll receive more than 20 orens. And if you manage to destroy Salamandra...
Indeed, if you manage to dismantle Salamandra, I'll try to fully compensate you your efforts.
I doubt destroying Salamandra will be so easy. I'll visit again, and count on your help.
I'll help if I can.
See you later.
I'm looking for stones called Sephirots. There are 10 of them and I don't yet have the complete set. I thought you might be interested in works of art and other curiosities.
I know the stones you're talking about. I bought one some time ago, thought it had magical potential. It actually has none, at least as far as I can tell. And I paid a mage an arm and a leg for the magic examination.
Care to sell it to me?
Sell my Tipperath? I'm kind of attached to that stone…
I'll give you a good price.
Like 500 orens?
I wasn't thinking about that good a price, but so be it.
I wear the Tipperath as an amulet. We can do the deal right now.
I don't have the money for the Sephirot yet, but I'll be back with it soon.
Don't rush. I'm not that bent on selling it.
I have 500 orens that I'll gladly pay you for the Sephirot.
Though with sorrow, I relinquish it. Looking greedy is good for business. Image is everything in my line of work. The Sephirot is yours.
Know who issued the warrant for Phed's arrest?
It just so happens, I do. It was my secretary.
Why?
Because I told him to, witcher.
The landing has yet to be cleared of drowners.
You're a professional so I won't tell you how to do things, but mind you, I'm pressed for time.
I'll head for the swamp as soon as possible.
How's business?
Witcher, you really think I spend my time at a stall selling turnips? I'm a big time merchant and run businesses you don't even dream of.
I see.
You just don't get it. You're confusing stars reflected in a pond for the night sky. I'm waiting for important news here.
Farewell.
Though I have no proof of your innocence, I've decided to believe you.
That's wise, witcher. Maybe you should trust your instincts more often.
