Bugger off!
Out! Bloody mutant!
Not now.
Drinking with you's a fucking treat… I shouldn't do this, but I'll show you something interesting.
Happened on a book… The history of Redanian Intelligence… Everybody thought this damned scroll disappeared without a trace.
I'm a fence. I buy and I sell.
What do you deal in?
Everything that's worth it.
Hmm...
So what'll it be. We doing some plowing business?
I've figured out Javed. Care to listen?
Spit it out.
Javed is using an illusion spell to roam around disguised as Raymond. The real detective is dead. I have solid proof of this. He's moving around town freely and pursuing his plans. He wanted to sick me on Vincent, Ramsmeat and Kalkstein…
I don't know what to say… Fuck! A while longer and he'd have duped us all. How do you want to finish the son of a bitch off?
I need to weaken him. Unfortunately, I don't know how.
Talk to your other suspects. One of 'em might know a way.
I've figured out Salamandra.
Riiiight…
Let's summarize…
I'm really fucking interested.
There's nothing to it. There's absolutely nothing interesting in this story.
What is your deal?
You're no criminal genius, Thaler, though you might like to be.
So who am I? Some pious priestesses virginity that she lost in a dark alley?
You're a little conniver who buys debts to have power over people for a moment, to feel important.
That hurts, Geralt.
You talk a bundle, but when push comes to shove, you hide under the guards' bibs. You lack balls…
Shut the fuck up.
Don't pretend you have principles. Somebody brings you the things of a witcher, someone who risks their life all the time for people like you and what do you do?
What?
You aren't even interested to know what happened to him. Just some more prizes to peddle. You're a little, insignificant fence, nothing more.
That concludes you investigation? I almost feel disappointed.
You're not worth my time.
The great Geralt has spoken. He lectures and plays the wise one. I couldn’t give a rat's ass about your lectures and wisdom.
Not being petty, I won't take it personally. Goddam customers are allowed to lose their temper once in a while.
Right...
You support them with your contacts and resources.
They said White Wolf's a brainy guy! And here's this fucking moron!
Fuck off, and if you show your face around here again, I'll call my well paid city guard friends and they'll get medieval on your ass.
You're clean. I have proof you're not working for Azar.
What a revelation.
Though a lot of evidence pointed toward you. Almost as if someone wanted me to suspect you.
I underestimated you, witcher.
It's a common mistake.
You know, let me tell you something. I might have gotten on Azar's bad side once…
The guy is fucking dog for antiques and various luxuries. Like all plowing wild men who make a coin or two. I once got an entire transport of that shit - turned out it was for him.
Except I needed the city guards' help around that time. I tipped Vincent off and they confiscated everything. I've needed even more protection since then.
I'll be back.
The guards found a witcher's sword at your place.
First of all, the cocksucking guards. Second, why do you care?
Another witcher, Berengar, visited you.
It wasn't his farkin' razor…
How can you know that?
I have other stuff that belonged to your buddy. The sword is from a different source.
Other things?!
Other stuff, meaning not a sword, right? For instance, it could be his undershorts that he shat all over.
So were did you get the witcher's sword?
What will you gimme in return?
I'll stop short of gutting you like a pig.
Fair offer. I bought it from this guy at the Hairy Bear tavern.
Care to describe him?
Oh, you don't need that. He's the most famous dice player around. He is out-fucking-standing, a real goddam magician.
How did you get Berengar's stuff?
You're one fucking stubborn dude. From a middleman.
Where do I look for him?
You'll find him at the Hair Bear, but I don't know that he'll want to talk to you.
The guy's name is Brick.
What do you know about Berengar? Thaler, you're not getting it. I'm not interested in the middleman, I need information about Berengar!
Then don't fucking ask me. Your witcher friend was working for the alchemist Kalkstein.
That information you get for free. I'll charge you the usual rate for any other.
Have you heard of Salamandra?
Plowing reptiles, I heard about 'em but I've no fucking idea what they want.
Amphibians.
What the fuck?!
Salamanders are amphibians. Now tell me what your connection to them is.
I don't know a fucking thing.
We shall see. Later.
You do business with Salamandra?
Off your rocker? Where'd you get that idea?
How did you get Berengar's stuff?
I'm a plowing fence. You know who a fence is, or do I need to draw you a picture? You think I ask every fucking thief where he got his goods?
Let me draw you a picture: A certain organization (Salamandra) has it in for witchers. A witcher (Berengar) disappears, and all his stuff lands in the hands of a fence (you)… Getting this?
Fuck pictures! I have nothing to do with some plowing Berengar! My suppliers might know more…
Besides, I'd never survive in this business if I sold hot goods that I actually had a hand in getting.
A lot of shadowy people around here.
Am I a fence? Un-fucking-believable!
But why all this at night?
If you had debts, would you strut around proudly in daytime?
And be glad they come to me. If their debts were paid by Salamandra's accountants, the city would've turned belly up a long time ago.
You have contacts among the city guards. You could be valuable to Azar.
We live in goddamned dangerous times. I need protection against Salamandra, too. That's the extent of my dealings with the guards.
Yeah, right.
I pay Vincent's morons a few coins and they see to my personal safety…I don't have time now, see you.
Can you get me inside the cemetery?
I can do anything. Tell the gravedigger that he owes me nothing. He should be pretty fucking grateful.
Thanks.
I can do anything… But I don't feel like it.
How can I convince you?
This damn investigation is getting tiring. Prove that I'm innocent.
Think of something! Be fucking creative!
Explain to me why the guards tolerate your business.
Heheh... that's confidential. You need to know how to take care of yourself.
Take care?
Both the bastard guards and the fucking thieves need me. That's real art, witcher. I have deals with everyone and that makes me untouchable.
Riiight.
I know about your tryst with Shani…
Fuck off!!!
We aren't all plowing philanderers! Some of us have depth…
So long.
Though I don't have any proof, I've concluded you had nothing to do with it.
I'd fucking say so! Goddam Dijkstra, ace spy. Splendid analysis, for fuck's sake.
If you figure anything out and need more information, creep on over and we'll talk.
