Grrr, beat it!!!
Don't overdo it. One more word and it's the dungeon.
How did things go at the warehouse after I left?
Quickly.
Good. I admit I was hoping for a bit more, but it's always a few bandits less…
That's the last time you used me, I'm not a general avenger…
I had no choice, believe me. But you have my word. It won't happen again.
I understand you plan to continue the investigation on your own.
Don't have a choice.
I can't help you officially, but I'll stay out of your way. Anything you learn I'd be glad to hear.
If you're here about the warehouse, take my advice and think before you say anything…
What arrangement did you intend to make with Salamandra?
I was there on official business. The people you killed wanted to testify against Salamandra.
Lucky for you, they turned out not to have any valuable information. They actually wanted to cheat me.
Unconvincing.
I don't care. Be warned. If you get in my way again, I'll slap you witcher's ass in jail. Understood?
I'm continuing the investigation on my own. If you're involved in any way…
Enough! Got anything specific? If not, shove off.
Your reputation precedes you. You've already killed three monsters and presented trophies as proof.
True.
Take this runic stone as a special reward from me. I've had it for some time, but I venture you'll find better use for it.
Keep up the good work. More rewards await you.
The king has shown clemency and let you out of the cooler, but you still need to observe the quarantine.
Any suggestions?
You're not allowed out of the Temple Quarter.
You must be joking?!
Care to try us? We need to keep a close watch on you witchers.
Heard recently that justice is blind… Guess I need to get used to that.
What is it, witcher?
I know it's Raymond!
What's Raymond?
Raymond is the Salamandra boss.
Believe me, witcher, of all people Raymond has excellent reasons to detest Salamandra… Besides, Javed is their leader…
That's just it. Javed and Raymond are one and the same. Salamandra slew the real detective some time ago. Since then, Javed has been freely pursuing his goals concealed beneath a magical illusion and using Raymond's good name…
How did you figure that out?
Through deduction, my dear captain, the detective's best and most reliable instrument…
So, Raymond… Hmm… It'll be a full moon soon… I need to assemble a task force… Ah, almost forgot. If what you say is true, and something tells me it is, then I have to admit that was some good work you did. Thanks, Geralt.
What does the full moon have to do with it?
Absolutely nothing. Forget about it… Patience, witcher. We'll get the bastard in good time…
Ever heard this? If you want something done well, do it yourself?
What do you mean?
Absolutely nothing. Forget about it.
Ah, almost forgot. If it's true, and I suspect it is, then I gotta admit it… good work. Thanks.
I know about your links with Salamandra.
Lemme here it…
Let's summarize the facts…
Continue…
My encounter with Salamandra in the sewers was Phed's doing. You had to release because you had no choice.
That law's the law.
You are also after the Salamanders, but to keep your investigation intact, you're keeping it a secret. And what you do at night is none of my business.
Finally something sensible.
I have to acknowledge your reasons.
Hmm…
My curiosity is killing me.
You're a corrupt cop. Azar Javed bought you with his blood-stained gold…
Listen to me carefully, Geralt of Rivia. For some time now, I've been conducting a very complex investigation. You follow?
Such an investigation is no laughing matter, it's risky and costly. Furthermore, there's the issue of supervisors who expect results.
Get to the point, Vincent…
Shut your trap. I organize ambushes and setups, and every plowing time I get to the crime scene, I learn that some moron has chopped everybody to pieces!
Uhhhhh...
Shut it, I said! That fucking moron is you, no other. I've had enough of your suspicions, enough of your crapping on my plans, dismantling them, I've had enough of your lopsided face!!! Grrr!!
Forgive me, Captain. I have irrefutable evidence it's not you.
Finally, some wise words out of your mouth. I just wish they had come sooner.
Well…
Here's a City Guard ring. Wear it and the guards shouldn't give you any trouble.
Thanks. Know anything else about Salamandra?
Salamandra aims to take over the fisstech trade there. Javed's smelled real money in it. He uses vast amounts of it himself.
We'll talk later.
Can you tell me how the Salamandra investigation is going?
Patience, witcher. All will be explained tonight.
Any way I can help?
Stay clear of the warehouses in the slums. It's a sensitive case that doesn't require your sword… just yet.
The warehouses… You don't intend to go there alone?
It's a secret operation. How do you expect me to go - with an assault team in full plate armor and a bugler?
Relax, I'm no rookie and have a few things up my sleeve…
No doubt…
Meaning? No matter. Have a good time today, enjoy your freedom, and maybe tomorrow I'll serve you Javed's balls on a platter…
I want to talk to you about Salamandra.
I can't promise I'll say anything…
Someone informed Salamandra about my cockatrice contract.
What're you suggesting?
I bet Phed… after you released him...
I have no time for you, witcher. End of conversation.
Several possibilities, the most obvious pointing to you.
The most obvious isn't always true. I don't have to explain myself to you. Get lost.
You let Phed out of prison!
His bail was paid. That's the law.
I get it - the law is there to be observed.
The law is there to be broken.
You don't know my job, witcher. I don't teach you how to catch monsters. I let him out but that doesn't mean I've lost his trail.
But...
Anyway, I don't have to explain myself to you. End of conversation.
You've banned your people from pursuing Salamandra.
My unwillingness to discuss it with you doesn't mean we're not pursuing the case.
All right, I won't disturb you, then.
Maybe you can talk to me?
I am, even though I'm not sure I should be. It's an important investigation and it's confidential. End of conversation.
What do you do nights? Meet with your boss, Azar Javed?
Witcher, did you fall on your head on the way here? There's nothing unnatural about me spending nights in the Merchants'' Quarter…
I see.
Hmm, where do you get the money for that?
Don't have to be rich to spend the night there. What are friends for?
Wealthy friends…
They say you're holding a prisoner who's a Salamandra member.
Maybe we are, but it's surely none of your business, witcher.
I'd like to...
You'll get no information, out of me or my people.
I have a letter signed by the elf Yaevinn from the camp in the swamp. Yaevinn leads a band of Squirrels, so this letter might be of some interest to the authorities.
Indeed, it is. Show it to me.
Here.
Yeaah... thoroughly civic behavior, witcher. Surprising for an outca... a-hem. Thanks, here's your reward for the information.
Thanks.
Can you get me a pass into the cemetery?
No problem. Maybe you can clean it up a bit while you're there. It's gotten really dangerous lately…
I'll see what I can do.
I don't see why I should help you with this masquerade. You accuse me and then you want help?
See it as a way to prove your innocence…
Not a chance in hell! Grrr…. No way.
I didn't want to anger…
I'm all right. But I won't help you with this vigilante investigation… Especially since the results are crap.
You ever do autopsies?
What for? Punctured stomachs mean gang warfare, torn off heads mean werewolves or other nasty things and black tongues mean poison.
In the case of the first we pressure Ramsmeat, in the case of the second we hand things over to the Order or hire a witcher, and with the third it's the victim's wife 90% of the time.
Autopsies are a waste of time.
I can prove I killed the cockatrice.
Impressive. That's 400 orens reward. Well deserved.
I can prove I killed the archespor in the swamp.
What the heel is this? The hideous things that roam this earth. That's 400 orens reward.
Is it your job to handle monsters, too?
Yes, though I'd rather not waste my men on that. I pay everyone who kills a dangerous monster. Just bring me proof.
Which monsters bring the greatest rewards?
Right now my budget includes reward money for the cockatrice in the sewers and for some bloodthirsty plant that kills people in the swamp.
Many problems in town?
Bandits, monsters, the plague and you.
Right.
Farewell.
It looks like it's nothing. I don't have any solid evidence, but I've decided to exclude you from the list of suspects…
Suddenly that mountain's a mole hill. Complex investigation - grand results. That's what happens when amateurs try their hand at serious work.
But at least your intentions were good. If you trip over any real leads, come by. I'll give you some good advice.
