I don't have time now.
Who is it that the gods have led to me?
Greetings. My name is Geralt.
I see you are a witcher. Has a villager finally sought to do something about the midday ladies?
More or less.
I lead the life of a hermit here with few luxuries, but make yourself at home.
Thank you.
By the way you speak I assume you are well educated.
Correct. I spent most of my life serving King Foltest as a diplomat.
Would it be forward of me to ask what inspired you to seek isolation out here?
Of course it would. I can only say I abandoned the city when the Lady of the Lake summoned me to serve her.
Don't you get bored out here?
Intelligent people are never bored, and I brought my library when I went into exile. I use the knowledge I draw from books on herbs to prepare potions for the people of Murky Waters, who provide food in exchange.
Your knowledge could be of use to me.
Please examine what I have. Years of solitude have allowed me to copy some of my books many times over. I would be contented to know these copies were of use to someone.
You seem to be comfortable here.
Do you have any other questions?
Do you have anything a witcher could do for you?
Kind of you to ask. There is a problem I do not know how to solve.
How can I help?
Nearby is a druids' ring with an ancient statue of the Goddess. The place is saturated with Power and draws many dangerous entities.
Not uncommon.
The Wild Hunt began haunting the circle recently, its king hoping to draw the souls of warriors laid in the kurgans by my hut..
I have dealt with the Hunt. What would you like me to do?
I want you to kill 9 phantoms, a hallowed number of the druids. Perhaps the appearance of a witcher will drive off the King of the Hunt for a time. As your reward you may have a book on vampires, ownership of one of my huts or a wreath of forget-me-nots.
Fine, I can do that.
Remember this: the King of the Hunt is a powerful opponent and no mortal, not even you, can hope to defeat him.
So how do I fight him?
You will find mandrake root by the kurgans near my hut. This magic herb will keep the King of the Hunt at bay. Merely light the candle that stands within the ring and sprinkle mandrake upon the flame.
That sounds helpful.
I'll think about it.
Remind me, what was I to do?
You were to slay 9 phantoms within the druids' ring. They only appear there at night. The King of the Hunt is the fiercest of them.
How do I handle him?
I did the job. The Wild Hunt is gone.
Splendid, I am grateful to you. Which prize will you take?
I'll take the vampire book.
Here it is. May it serve you well.
Thank you.
Please also take this sack of holy salt. Carry it on you and it will fend off phantoms. It might prove useful sometime.
I'm interested in the hut.
The hut is yours. Here is the key to its door.
I would like the wreath of forget-me-nots.
It is yours. Handle it carefully and use it when the moment is right.
Tell me again about the rewards.
The vampire book contains knowledge on alps, bruxae, fledders and garkins. If you choose the hut, it will serve as your sanctuary and as a place to store things you don't need.
Do you know how to help a ghost return to the realm of the dead?
Have someone specific in mind?
Alina. She turned into a midday lady and I am trying to help her.
Alina gained possession of a rare and powerful item, Nehalennia's Mirror. Nehalennia's mirrors often served prophets and oracles for they accurately, though sometimes confusingly, foretold the future. Alina often turned to her mirror for advice.
Asking the usual - &quot;Who is the fairest of them all?&quot; From what I know Nehalennia's Mirrors can be distinguished into the courteous and the smashed.
Precisely. Alina's mirror did not prove courteous.
Thank you. I think I know what to do. I'll try to find its parts and reassemble the mirror.
I gave Alina the mirror.
To what effect?
She ceased attacking me and seems to have understood who she is. But she still does not believe in her own death. She wants to prepare for her wedding...
Then you must speak with the Lady of the Lake or the local soothsayer. Only they might know how to solve this problem.
Thanks. Farewell.
Yes, I need to ask you something.
What is it?
Who lies beneath the kurgans I saw before your hermitage?
They are the tombs of knights who died serving the Lady over the ages. Gavander defended her honor against the Black Skull Knight, Elleverer perished at the foot of her altar fighting a water beast. Bors's tomb is symbolic for the knight was lost when on a holy mission. The last is Reynard, an ordinary innkeeper who stopped his customers from pissing in the lake...
Do you tend to the kurgans?
That is how I serve the Lady. Her power is strong in the kurgans, and at times after dark you can speak to the Lady's champions. From them I draw wisdom and knowledge of past times.
Who lies beneath the fifth mound?
The last stands empty, awaiting a new champion.
Who is the Lady of the Lake?
Though I serve her, she remains a mystery to me. I know her to be a goddess. At times I see her dressed in white, traversing the fields through morning fog, her bare feet stepping lightly over the dewy grass.
Like her?
I love her. She is a goddess.
I believe the Lady is not of this world. Mysteriously she affects the entire area, watching over it, safeguarding its people, granting them abundance.
Yet her influence is subtle and she never imposes her power.
Intriguing.
They say you're an expert on the legend of the Holy Grail.
Do you intend to set out in search of it?
Perhaps. First let's talk.
You should know the myth of the Grail has been studied for centuries and interpreted in hundreds of ways.
I'm sure you can give me an abridged version. The key facts about the Grail itself. Say, three theories…
As I said, there are hundreds… but all right, three it shall be. The classical theory of which I myself am a proponent, the conspiracy theory, and finally one of the most mysterious - the philosphical and mystical. Which one shall I begin with?
Give me the classical one.
Good choice. Lidsten, then. The Grail is a cup, a powerful magical object whose meaning cannot be fathomed by even the most powerful sorcerers.
This chalice possesses the power to heal all diseases, poisonings and wounds - &quot;And pain will trun into power.&quot; One theory also states that in the hands of a rightful ruler, it can heal entire lands, protect their inhabitants from danger, creatures of the dark, natural disasters and so forth.
Sounds a little like one of Dandelion's ballads. A love story is the only thing missing…
All who drink from this miraculous cup are healed, fortified and understand the Truth.
I'm not interested in the first. Let's go for the conspiracy theory.
Go on.
Knights have been seeking the Grail for ages, yet none has found it. Even the noble Lacel and the bold Bors have failed in this endeavor. I heard that even the Grand Master of the Order of the Flaming Rose has shown interest in the quest.
Any specific instructions about that?
Unfortunately I know only what I have garnered from my books.
I'm interested in the conspiracy theory.
This was popularized by one Bronze Dan and begins with a convoluted theory about the derivation of the word &quot;Grail.&quot; A few tortuous pages into his book, we learn that the Holy Grail is actually Sang-Real, which in the elder tongue denotes royal, hallowed blood.
Then, employing cheap controversialist devices galore, Bronze Dan concludes that the Grail is actually the descendents fo the prophet Lebioda...
Enough of this conspiracy stuff. Give me the classical theory.
Go on.
These descendents, talented in the ways of magic, were hidden away and protected by the members of a secret organization before they ultimately spun out of control and mixed their own blood with that of Aen Seidhe, the Knowledgeable One.
The theory goes on to present the tempestuous and twisted fate of Sang-Real, but the author gets lost in his arguments, often contradicts himself… generally it turns into an unholy mess.
That's enough geneology and genetics. I have a feeling that's a false trail…
Which theory should I present next?
I want to hear the philosophical and mystical one.
Hmmm… the most difficult, although the general principles are the following. The Grail is a concept, a general understanding of Good. The search for the Grail is nothing beyond an ordinary quest for perfection, a search for the ideal.
Interesting…
The Grail has no specific form or shape. It is different for everyone: it can be an object, an idea, a discovery. It can also be a search for the truth about oneself.
Hmmm.
This theory claims the quest for the Grail to be the goal in itself. The result is of secondary importance.
Are you suggesting something?
I serve the Lady and am more insightful than you think. I know you have returned to the world of the living from death, presumably in search of something, but that is none of my concern. Just remember one thing…
What?
That at the end of your journey, the Grail may prove to be entirely different from what you initially expected it to be.
What do you know about the Wild Hunt?
Tis a group of crazed specters who traverse the heavens searching for souls like themselves. They are susceptible to magic, especially of the ritual kind. That is all I know.
What can the wreath of forget-me-nots do?
It has the power to dispel curses that hold midnight ladies.
You might find it useful…
Can you tell me why the Lady of the Lake is just slightly sceptic about the idea of seeking the Grail?
Many fine knights set out in search of the Grail, abandoning their role as guardians of peace and justice under the guidance of the Fisher King and the Lady of the Lake.
Now the Fisher King has become mute and the knights are all gone. I think the Lady may be very lonely.
But she's a goddess.
A lonely goddess. You know not how lonely. Do you think goddesses cannot be lonely? The gods ultimately created us in their own image.
Thank you, farewell.
