Iambic or dactylic? Or maybe I should create something completely new? Drat, I'm feeling uninspired, what a nightmare!
Play for me, the minstrel said, but the cymbalists faced him in dread… hmmm now a rhyme for dread, any ideas?
Bonehead.
Ha! Hilarious. Leave me alone, I need to think.
Geralt!
Hey, Dandelion.
How did you get here?
Teleport…
Me too! Triss teleported me, it was amazing. I always wanted to see what it was like.
She did that for you? Must be having an off day.
You didn't answer my question.
You interrupted me. Let's say she saved me from the kiss of death.
Sounds pretty good, maybe I can use it in my new ballad.
In any case, this place is delightful, we'll probably stay here a while. Triss said we need to wait things out a bit, till things quiet down in Vizima and the princess stops dreaming of slitting your throat as soon as she sees you.
I tend to agree… Tell me about this enchanted place… in prose, please.
The area is charming, there's a magical mood to it, the peasants seem happy, and the peasant women, mmmmmmmm…
Dandelion, get to the point…
Well, firstly, there's going to be a wedding. Alina's and Julian's. She's the village mayor's daughter and he's a rich merchant from Kovir. There are also vodyanoi here and… Oh! I almost forgot! Alina is taking care of Alvin…
Our Alvin???
Well, yes. Unless he has a twin brother…
Dandelion…
Geralt, that you? How are things?
I found Alvin.
Alvin… Wait a minute, there was something I was supposed to do. Triss was nailing it into my head for an hour… Ah! I know! I have a dimeryt amulet for him.
Always there in a squeeze…
Geralt?
Is Alvin in the village?
Yes. One thing. Triss said you should check up on him. Somebody else is supposedly looking for him, too. Or something.
Right, did she say anything else?
Don't think so. I'm off to the tavern, where I expect to meet some charming young woman who will get my juices flowing…
I'm looking for a way to help Alina's ghost pass on.
In some miraculous way, Alina acquired a relatively rare and powerful artifact - Nehalena's Mirror. As you know, these mirrors primarily served oracles and prophets, because they foretell the future accurately, though in a convoluted manner. Alina consulted her mirror relatively often...
With the customary question, &quot;Who's the fairest of them all?&quot; Form what I know Nehalena's Mirrors are distinguishable into those that are polite and those that are broken…
Exactly. Alina's mirror was not among the polite ones. Maybe if…
Yes, we must find the pieces of the mirror, reassemble it and show it to Alina.
She'll realize who she is. Call me when you need me.
The mirror didn't help. Alina is still floating around the fields.
Maybe it lost its power…
I don't think so. There is some progress. Alina knows who she is, but she refuses to believe her death. I'm trying to think if how I could persuade her…
Maybe you should see her sister.
That likewise represents a problem. Celina is a midnight lady and only appears after dark…
Celina… Hang on, I feel something coming on… That stormy hair we all know, a hand raised to her lips, it's Alina, Alina, her fingertips… Something's not gelling here…
Celina would be the better choice… Dandelion, concentrate now, this is serious. You'll have time for a ballad later…
Sometimes at night Adam listens close. 'Tis Celina's, Celina's, Celina's ghost… Lovely, wouldn't you say?
Lovely, yes. People say art and magic are kin. So let's give it a shot. Since you're feeling inspired, and we know of no other way, we'll try to use poetry to keep Alina around until dusk. Then we'll see what happens when she sees her sister. Write a poem.
I don't have any other ideas… You should talk to an expert - the Lady of the Lake or a soothsayer.
How's the poem?
Could we do this tomorrow?
Too late, you'll have to improvise.
Ah! Master Dandelion! You promised to play at my wedding…
Geralt and I devised a short poem for two voices, care to listen?
Dandelion, what are you doing?
Proceed.
His lips are sealed, his eyes are blank, His breast stone-cold, his heart has ceased;
Still in this world, yet no longer its part! Who is this man?
A corpse.
The deceased.
New life comes as hope springs true, His soul shines, by memory embraced, The dead one returns to the land of his youth, to seek his beloved's face.
His breast heaves, yet cold it remains, His lips move, his eyes stare engrossed, Once more in this world, but by death detained, Who is this man?
A ghost.
A specter.
Stop, I remember, everything. Celina killed me and my soul shall know no peace until I am avenged.
Midday lady.
Midday lady.
I need your help.
Right, Shoot.
I need a poem, a ballad, something of the sort.
No problem. But to do it right I need to know who it's for…
Alina.
Uhhh, isn't she getting married the day after tomorrow?
She was, she's not anymore.
Oooo… ummm… what's the poem supposed to be about?
Death, Dandelion. Alina is dead and her spirit returns daily to wander around the fields. She has to understand she is dead.
Hmm, right, not your everyday commission, but I'll give it a shot. Any other instructions?
Yes, don't provoke her and don't include any jokes. She's really dangerous.
I need some time…
We have to get there before sunset. Remember, Dandelion, in the fields before dusk.
Dandelion, explain to me…
You did great, I would've warned you, but it was a sudden inspiration…
Please spare me your sudden inspirations in the future.
Stop sulking, it worked, didn't it? Anyway, I intend to develop that theme into an epic work about folk customs…
What happened in Vizima after I disappeared?
I don't know. I left soon after you. I only heard that you killed many people.
Sometimes killing is necessary.
I was just thinking, so don't get offended, but has killing people become a pleasure for you?
I kill humans only in my own defense.
Like the old days. Ah, try as we might, but the number of aggressive bastards refuses to drop.
I have a feeling the best of them are still ahead of me.
So watch out for yourself.
I will.
The thugs from Salamandra and their kind deserve to die.
I'm not judging you. I trust you know what you're doing.
I do. Let's talk about something else.
I have nothing against slaying humans.
You've changed. For the worse, Geralt. You've darkened my day. Goodbye.
Farewell.
And this new ballad is going to be about what?
It'll be a masterpiece in verse, interesting, horrifying, romantic…
And the story?
Engaging, and right out of life. See, I changed my mind. I don't think poets need to embellish, life is colorful enough as it is…
You're going to write about peasants working in fields? Dandelion, I know you and I think you're up to something…
You'll know soon enough.
