You offended me, witcher.
Come back later, I'm busy now.
Out of my sight and don't come back!
Bye.
Finally, a bold lad answers my call! And none other than the witcher, Geralt!
How do you know my name?
I heard a lot about you at the tavern in Vizima.
What did you hear?
Enough to be sure you can handle the task I want to entrust to you.
We meet again.
I need your help again.
With what?
A grave matter this time… I came across something which could prove a milestone in alchemy. What's more, it's connected to your profession.
I'd gladly hear about it.
Hmmm… Mhm… Sorry, I got lost in thought…
I know Raymond is in fact the leader of Salamandra.
Sure?
Yes, I have irrefutable evidence. Azar killed Raymond and assumed his identity using an illusion.
What a rascal! What do you intend to do about it?
You're better off not knowing.
Be careful. He is sure to be very powerful. You must cut him off from the source of his power, from fire.
You must draw him to a place where the magical aura is unstable, best if it's surrounded by the opposing element, water…
The tower in the swamp.
Ideal. You stand a chance there.
I suspected you were working with Javed…
Your assumptions are all wrong.
Let's summarize the facts.
You'll see they speak in my favor.
The wounded man from the hospital was working for you.
I hired him to find Berengar.
Who disappeared when he tried to gain access to the tower in the swamp at your behest.
I had hoped he would manage it. I cannot get inside it myself.
If we don't secure the knowledge contained therein quickly, Salamandra and Azar Javed will get their hands on it. And I shan't be able to move forward with my studies.
Admit it. You hope to acquire some real magic through your studies.
That's a very simple way to put it… but true, my knowledge is broad but theoretical.
As a theoretician you represent nothing of value to Azar. Your testimony is convincing. I'm sorry to have suspected you.
I understand you. I get paranoid sometimes, too.
You really think I lead Salamandra? I'm going to die laughing.
I'm sure. And you won't fool me with your absent-minded scholar guise.
You're a fool, Geralt!
Someone went a long way to implicate you.
So you believe it's not me?
Yes, Azar wanted me to think you were working for him.
I would never do that. Do you know why?
Why?
I heard of him once. That madman draws on the power of the element of fire. Extremely dangerous! The element of fire is the element of chaos, something uncontrollable by rational thought, the very opposite of the natural order embodied in the other elements...
Hold it there. I understand drawing on the element of fire is dangerous. That's all I need to know.
I'll be back.
You wanted to give me a job.
Witcher, you have a chance to help me complete my life's work! A mysterious tower stands hidden away in the forest on the swamp near Old Vizima…
I know the story. A princess up top, a dragon down below. Thanks, but I'll pass.
Don't interrupt me, please. This tale requires your undivided attention. Legend has it a certain mage and alchemist built the tower. No princesses, no dragons.
So where's the witcher's job?
The mage died ages ago and the tower was forgotten. The Power within it has spun out of control, attracting and deforming creatures that venture near it.
In short, it breeds monsters?
Precisely. I want to examine that Source, witcher, and write a dissertation that I'm sure will immortalize my name! I'll obtain access to the mage’s secrets that for all these years have been hidden in the tower! Unfortunately, the tower is locked, so I'll pay an even 1000 orens to whoever helps me get inside.
Nice sum, though something tells me the task is harder than we think. I'll see what I can do.
I would not waste such a sum on a witcher were it easy! Breaking into a powerful mage's lab can be complicated. Thus, first we need to gather detailed information on the tower.
Where do I find this information?
In legends, the tales of elders and swamp inhabitants. But above all in old books, wisdom recorded in writing is infinitely more reliable.
Any specific titles in mind?
Well, we'll definitely need Ransant Alvaro's &quot;The Secret Gates&quot; and an old alchemy treatise, &quot;Ain Soph Aur.&quot;
I know of one copy of &quot;The Secret Gates&quot; that some dwarf had. The second book, incidentally written by an anonymous gnome, was lost long ago and could be hard to find.
In the process, you can test my newest invention. A crystal that is linked to Places of Power and my workshop. It will allow you to teleport, dismantling your being into billions of pieces that travel beyond the time-space curve…
It's enough that I know to use it in Places of Power. It will transfer me in my entirety to this studio, right?
I certainly hope so. There is some chance of errors, but it's miniscule…
I need to think this over.
About the tower…
Yes?
Remind where I need to look for information on the tower.
In books, Geralt, for they are the greatest and most certain knowledge store. Over the ages oral histories become susceptible to deformation…
Fine, fine, books. Anything else?
Speak to swamp dwellers, too. We know of cases where folk knowledge, myths, fairytales and legends proved key sources of knowledge…
Question swamp dwellers and find some stories. That's enough.
I have new information on the tower.
Tell me, quickly!
Calm down, I will. Before he built this tower the mage erected two others, but both collapsed. This third one suited him and served as his house and lab.
I knew that much… You've nothing more?
The mage lived in the tower until he disappeared. Most likely he's dead. He tried to bring the inanimate to life, constructing clay golems that served him but hardly seemed the crowning achievement of his research.
That would agree with the legends of the Tower Guard.
This is the best part, though I don't get any of it. I have learned about ten corner stones, elements and threads of fate from which all this was born..
So the old scrolls are true! Sephirots! I should have known!
I knew you'd like this part. One book contains veiled hints about where the stones can be found.
We must find them, all ten Sephirots. Just so happens I have one of them. Here it is - Chocc'mah, the Stone of Wisdom, my prized possession.
I reckon my task is to find the other nine.
Yes! Near the tower there should be a circle of old stone obelisks. You must find the Sephirots and place them in the obelisks. Ah! We're so close! This will be a breakthrough! I will abolish the theory of those rotting professors from Oxenfurt! I'll destroy them! Smash them!
Kalkstein, control yourself. Before you go demolishing and smashing, I must find those damnable stones, and I have no idea where they might be. The information in the books I found is &quot;murky&quot; at best…
I'm sorry. I got carried away. Could you show me these books? I'll have a look and make some notes for you.
Sure.
Oh, there.
I've placed the Sephirots on the obelisks. The tower door is open.
Finally! I've waited long for this day!
Kalkstein...
The greatest discovery of my life! Witcher, I must prepare, so you understand... Know that I owe you tremendously and you fully earned your reward.
Thanks.
Forgive me, Kalkstein, but I forgot what I was supposed to do to unlock the tower…
Perhaps you can hire some help? There's a detective here in town. He's supposedly good.
We'll see.
Irritating, is it not? I remember searching long for a single ingredient once…
A-hem.
Yes, yes, the tower. You must find all the Sephirots and place them in the corresponding obelisks. That's it. You'll find clues on where to find the Sephirots in your notes…
That is easy.
I'm counting on you, Geralt.
Tell me more about the Sephirots…
Of course, always happy to share my knowledge. Ask away, witcher.
What are the Sephirots?
Since ancient times, alchemists have been seeking answers to many mystical and philosophical questions. One of the crucial issues is the essence of life, god, reality.
Alchemists aren't alone. Many sorcerers are equally interested.
Alchemy contends there are 10 main elements of the Tree of Life, 10 aspects of God that we are capable of knowing.
Those are the Sephirots?
Yes, Sephirots are the Words of Creation carved as symbols into 10 stones. The channels connecting them make up the branches of the Tree of Life.
What meanings do the Sephirots convey?
There are 10 Sephirots, divine words of creation: Keth'aar - Crown, Chocc'mah - Wisdom, Veen'ah - Understanding, Kezath - Love, Ghe'vrath - Power, Tipperath - Compassion, Neh'tza - Victory, 'Oth - Glory, Yesath - Foundation and Maal'kad - Kingdom.
We'll talk about it another time.
Geralt, I've written all the most important things in the notes I gave you. I fear an accumulation of unnecessary knowledge might ever so slightly… confuse you.
I spoke to Vaska in the swamp. She helped me find the Tower tarot card which describes how to wake the Sentry.
You must find a lightning rod, place it on the Sentry and wait for a storm. Straight as a wire.
Let's see the card. Interesting... Hm, an allegory but easy to decipher. Clear hints... You see, witcher, much depends on interpretation, but I think I know what this means. Alchemists find it easier to understand other alchemists.
Enlighten me.
The Sentry can be woken under specific circumstances. First, it needs to happen near the tower - that's a condition we meet. Secondly, you'll need a lightning rod to wake the golem.
A lightning rod?
The drawing pictures a man in a Crown, which could be a reference to King Herman the Mad.
Stick to the subject, Kalkstein.
You'll need a device that attracts and conducts lightning. Speaking plainly, a solid metal rod. A good smith should forge it for a decent price.
What next?
Finally, the most important thing. We'll need a thunderstorm. I admit I'm stuck, no idea how to make Mother Nature cooperate.
I'll think of something.
When all is in place, go to the Sentry and attach the lightning rod. The energy from the lightning bolt will revive the golem.
What next?
I have no idea, but I'm sure you'll manage. Having killed the golem, you'll be able to make a rare potion requiring a golem's heart… Here's the formula.
We'll see.
I've never heard of Herman the Mad.
Herman used to ascend a tower during storms and insult the gods, calling them bastards. A hostile faction carried out a coup simply by removing the lightning rod from the tower.
An enlightening story, but what's your point about the rod?
Let's talk about Salamandra.
Hmm…
I think you're in league with Salamandra.
Are you kidding? Me? Why?
That's what I'd like to know…
What is it you're after?
Something I don't have evidence for yet. So long.
Certain facts point to your relationship with Salamandra.
What facts?!
The wounded Salamander mentioned your name.
This man? Hmm, yes… that's likely given I hired him.
What did you need him for?
To help me with my experiments... I had no idea he belonged to a secret organization.
Yeah, right, so that bum distilled the fifth essence and dusted the philosopher's stone?
He protected me from Salamandra and took on other risky tasks. He risked his life for me and your sarcasm will not change that!
Get out of my sight, you shameless mutant!
It's suspicious that people you hire are chased by Salamandra.
I don't know who pursued Berengar, but I'm sure I had nothing to do with it.
Are you sure you didn't try luring him into a trap? Handing him over to Azar Javed?
Don't be a fool! If I worked for Salamandra, I would never leave open the possibility of being linked to Berengar! Your stupid insinuations offend my intelligence! Go away!
Can you tell me something about your magic abilities? Azar often uses the skills of mages. He could probably use someone like you.
I'm more of a theoretician than a practitioner. I don't know how to cast spells…
That's hard to believe. All this alchemy…
Besides, witcher, any powerful mage who sought to remain in hiding would hardly look like a learned man.
How's that?
Sorcerers often resort to illusion. The head of Salamandra can easily disguise himself. You won't find him parading around in a gown with an amulet around his neck.
I heard Witcher Berengar was working for you…
Eeeh.. I was hoping you wouldn't find out.
Care to tell me anything?
I hired him to investigate the Swamp Tower for me. I didn't want to scare you… I still have designs on that structure…
You hired him and he disappeared without a trace. Don't tell me you know nothing about that.
That's exactly why I want you to solve the riddle of the tower. Maybe while you're at it you can find out what happened to Berengar?
So you know what happened to him?
I'm not alone in wanting the knowledge hidden there. My competitors might have struck at Berengar…
I'm here about the notice.
You have some alghoul marrow for me?
Yes, the 10 fresh doses mentioned in the notice.
Splendid! Take this gold as your reward.
Not yet, but I'll be back with it soon.
Don't dawdle. I need the marrow for my alchemical solutions.
No, I'm here about the ghoul blood.
Hmm… ah, yes… From the Outskirts, right? No matter… Do you have it?
Yes.
I don't actually need it anymore… but I'll find some use for it.
Not yet.
I don't actually need it anymore… maybe just to have some stock.
How do I get to the swamp?
Use the western gate to get to the dike leading to Old Vizima.
What then?
You'll find a ferry there and a carrier willing to take you to the swamp.
The ferry goes in both directions?
Yes, there's a little dock in the swamp and near it you'll find the brickmakers' hamlet.
Thanks for the clues.
See you.
Though I have no proof for your innocence, I have decided to trust you. You're no longer a suspect.
I'm glad. I shall not betray your trust. When you find that criminal, I'll be glad to help you. Now let's get back to work.
