Not now.
You're here at last!
I am.
I know everything. Kalkstein used to work with Ramsmeat, I've got irrefutable evidence.
What now?
We'll set a trap, though it might be dangerous. Gather your equipment and come back when you're ready.
We'll see.
Yes?
I'm ready to take Ramsmeat on.
All right. You need to destroy Salamandra's fighting arm. Kill him.
That won't be easy, but I'll try.
I'm not ready to do that.
I was supposed to tend to Ramsmeat.
Get all the information you can out of him.
I killed Ramsmeat.
Splendid! That should break the organization's spine.
I found no proof on him… Absolutely nothing.
We'll rip the final proof straight out of Kalkstein's dead hands. He is Azar Javed's chief aide. He may even be Javed himself.
That proves he was just a strike force, Javed's fighting arm. Much of my evidence points to Kalkstein. Now we can be sure it's the alchemist.
I see you've planned everything…
Yes. We'll lure him into a trap. I know the tower in the swamp interests him - let's use that. Talk to him, he's sure to swallow the bait. I'll be waiting near the tower.
Good news. You'll be happy… Raymond.
You killed Ramsmeat? Is that it?
He won't be bothering us anymore. But the good news is different. We'll nab Javed soon. I have a plan. Your family will finally be avenged.
Can I know this plan?
I wanted to take care of this alone, but if you care to help me…
Of course I do, that's what you're paying me for. Besides, we're friends now…
Riiiight, friends… All right, this is what we do. Since we've defanged Javed by getting rid of Ramsmeat, we can now play on what he and his factotum Kalkstein want so much.
And that is?
The ancient secrets concealed in the Tower in the Swamp. I know how to open it. Kalkstein wants the powerful magic secrets hidden inside. I'd like you to do something.
Of course, how can I help?
Come with me to the swamp, and when I open the tower, you take and keep the secret books for me. We cannot let them fall into Javed's hands.
You can count on me. When do we go?
Now.
Geralt, we're nearing our investigation's end. The solution is within reach.
Tell me the details of your plan, then.
We need to get all the things that are hidden in the tower, all the notes and books. We'll use them as a bait for mister X.
How do you propose to open the tower?
I have a stone which is the key to the tower… or part of the key. Make sure Kalkstein gets interested in the matter, like we agreed.
I find your reasoning somewhat flawed.
Witcher…don't get me wrong, but this is hardly my first case. I'm in my element, been wading in this bog for years.
Hmm?
I'm good at what I do. I don't go around telling you how to kill monsters, do I?
I know how to handle monsters.
And I assure you I can handle this investigation!
Some things have been worrying me for some time…
Speak freely, Geralt, you can trust me.
It's you. I have the impression you've changed…
Go on, be clear, no need to beat around the bush. I won't be offended.
Lovely rugs, must've cost a bundle. Earlier on it was more… hm… homey.
An investment for the future, Geralt. This is my workplace. The furnishings must convey confidence, trust, professionalism.
I know I pay you a lot and you have other cases, but aren't they a luxury?
By no means. I tell you, it's how you approach the customer that counts. Once we wrap up this case, I am to expand my business.
Maybe. But the carpets aren't my only concern.
Yes?
It's the girls… I've heard some really vile rumors about you.
I know. That's Ramsmeat's revenge. I investigated one of his underlings. Now they want to discredit me. Don't worry about that.
You mean you don't use their services, the girls, that is?
Come on, Geralt! I'm no saint. I've been a couple of times, but no nasty stuff. That's not a problem is it?
It's warm here. You didn't used to burn such big logs.
I like warmth, you know, old age is no picnic. We can't all have mutated bodies… I have to burn big fires to keep warm.
It's summer…
I've been working a lot lately. You know. I must be under the weather a bit…
My medallion's vibrated every time I've been in here lately.
Protective amulets, I need to be careful. Salamandra's thugs may attack at any moment.
It vibrates a lot.
They're not just any amulets, they were made by a master mage. None of those Saint Lebioda's penis bones or other market square crap.
I see a box of fisstech on your desk… You a user?
From time to time. I started using when I was investigating a certain baron. Had to be on my feet all day and night.
Hmmmm.
I'm not proud of it, but everyone has their weaknesses, Geralt, everyone. Besides, I can control myself. I haven't developed a habit.
The world map on your wall? Developed an interest in international politics?
It's worth knowing what's going on in the world. It's also about my professional image. Say you're a client. What would you think when you saw a map like that?
That you're really interested in the Redania-Temeria border. I can see pin marks along it…
Witcher's vision, I forgot. But we aren't all witchers. A normal person would think, &quot;What a worldly fellow, he must have worked all over the place.&quot; And that's the idea.
Game over. I found Raymond's body. Surrender, Javed….
Surrender? Don't make me laugh. In a moment you'll be as dead as that imbecile.
Don't you fear death, witcher?
The autopsy proved that you killed our witness… Azar. Give yourself up.
Maybe later. I need to make sure of something.
I suspect…
Speak, Geralt.
It's the alchemist, Kalkstein.
Approach him carefully. He might only appear to be harmless…
Right.
…But he's my chief suspect. It's a gut feeling, but I lack incontrovertible evidence. That's why I didn't mention it earlier, but if you suspect him, there must be something in it.
Apart from everything, he's the only to have any secret knowledge, to know anything about magic. I don't believe he's strictly a theoretician. Then there are the mysterious disappearances of all those people who worked for him… He's definitely my number one.
It's the banker, Vivaldi.
Vivaldi could be the organization's sponsor, but it's unlikely. I have never seen a nonhuman Salamander. Somehow I can't see a dwarf commanding them.
I hear he hates humans…
He's a more likely match for the Scoia'tael... but I could be wrong. Check him out. I'll ask around, too. But don't forget the other suspects, especially the alchemist and Ramsmeat.
It's the thug, Ramsmeat.
Let's think… He certainly has resources, both financial and human. He also has motive - his lust for power. He's used to operating outside the law, in the underworld. There remains the issue of magic, but we might've overlooked something.
Possibly…
I'll set my contacts on him, check him out good and thorough. He's my number two. If you could press him a bit, provoke him, maybe he'd spill something. He's rumored to be edgy, so he could snap…
We'll see.
It's the fence, Thaler.
He is a mysterious guy. I'm sure he has his dirty secrets…
Like we all do.
Right. But are his secrets especially vile? It'd be good to know what he's hiding. But Ramsmeat and Kalkstein remain my chief suspects.
It's Captain Vincent.
Not likely. Even if he was involved in getting Phed freed, that just makes him a crooked cop, nothing more.
If he's taking bribes from Salamandra…
In this town only the lake fish don't take bait, but only because they're all floating belly up. That's no proof. He's a waste of our time, we'd be better off focusing on Kalkstein and Ramsmeat.
It's the merchant, Leuvaarden.
He's wealthy, has resources, and he's surely involved in some scheme. I know his sort, they can buy whoever they want. Courtiers, guards, royal clerks - all in their pockets. Yes, Leuvaarden could be the Salamandra boss.
What number is he on your list of suspects?
Three. Go after him a bit, but the alchemist and Ramsmeat are the important suspects.
Never mind.
I need to ask about that tough guy, the commander of the royal guards...
I saw him in town some time ago, busy bashing gays or other perverts.
How come?
What don't you understand? Everybody in town knows the guard commander hates deviants of all kinds, faggots in particular.
Everybody knows…
So long.
You're on my list of suspects.||I have an idea. Why don't you pretend to be Javed? Let's try to understand him, predict his next move…
Why should I be Javed?
I'll be the one to face him if there's a confrontation. I need to prepare. Besides, you have a better sense of the part…
All right… Ready?
And you… Javed? You're clever, that's undeniable, but you made one serious mistake.
Truly? I don't think so. Quite the opposite. I'm controlling the situation.
What will you do when I finally find you? Will you fight or flee to your Zerrikania…?
I'll trounce you like the worm you really are. You don't stand a chance against me.
Many before you thought the same but I'm still alive. Still hot on your trail…
Do you mean a few cut up bandits? Details, insignificant facts.
You have to have time to cast your spell…
Hahaha! You mistake stars reflected in a pond for the night sky. I am a master mage. It won't even be a fight. It'll be a massacre.
One thing worries me. I know that you're moving freely about town…
True, but I'm a master mage. I'm using an illusion.
Who are you pretending to be? Who has numerous contacts? Who elicits no suspicions when they show up in all kinds of strange places? Who would be the ideal victim, for surely you must have killed this individual?
Many people of that sort. That is why my plan is genius.
Pride is your mistake. You think you're clever enough to trick a naive witcher… But you miscalculated, because I know who you're impersonating.
And that is?
Raymond. You killed him, just as you had his family murdered earlier. Then, as the detective, you wanted to sick me on your enemies.
Geralt, isn't that overboard?
Not a bit. Your masquerade is over, Javed. You're finished.
You are clever, witcher, but hardly clever enough. I also foresaw this. My people await my signal. You won't get out of here alive.
We'll see…
Kill the witcher!
True, I went a bit too far. This is stupid…
Let's drop this masquerade and get back to work.
Kalkstein. He's perfect.
Yes! You have me!
Great work, Geralt. All the pieces fit together. Now we need to get the bastard. I can't possibly fight a mage. You have any ideas?
I need to think about it. I'll let you know once I've figured something out.
