I need to think through some things. We'll talk later.
I hope you don't think I'm in it for the money!
At least you know how to apologize.
What is it?
Have you gotten over it?
Me? You're the one who had something to get over.
Bye.
Hi, Geralt. Come to my place if you want to talk.
Where do you live?
I rent a room… in Vizima's north eastern end, near a gate.
Easy to find?
There's a small square with a sculpture of the aesculapian snake in front of the house. You should have no problem finding it.
I'll come by soon.
I'll come by soon.
Lovely roses, Geralt… I warm to gestures like this.
I'm glad.
Different colors mean different things. Red roses, for instance, signify love…
Red roses… Geralt… So you…
Shani, you're blushing…
I get flowers so rarely…
I'm sure a pretty, young medic like you can't complain about lacking admirers…
True, though recently this gloomy, evil seeming fellow has been hitting on me and scaring everyone else away…
Shani, if you need help…
No, it's not a problem. He was just mysterious, even charming in a peculiar way. We even went on a few dates and who knows what would've happened if I hadn't discovered he was leading a double life…
Mysterious? Double life? Who do you mean?
His name was Thaler. I doubt you know him. We were taking a walk along the dike one evening, you know, romance in the air, when I suddenly realized we were being followed by two stooges in grey coats thrown over their special forces armor…
I guess the coats were supposed to make them anonymous, you know, they thought no one would figure them out if they wore coats. They didn't know that at university I learned to recognize their kind at first sight…
Here I thought they were going to arrest us or question us about the Squirrels, when my companion told me not to worry, that duty calls and we needed to part, that he's not worthy of me and pathetic excuses like that.
The guys in the coats were behind us, just within earshot. I was about to tell him to shove his self-pity right up his ass when I noticed the other two giving him signals…
Shani, were they wearing Salamandra pins?
Relax and let me finish my story. I was curious, so I dropped my head, told him he had broken my heart and fainted, or faked fainting.
The grey coats ran right up to us and Thaler basically told him, I hope this is really important!&quot; And one of the coats answered, &quot;But boss, we were being invisible.
And Thaler says to him, &quot;Your balls will be invisible when I cut them off and shove them up your ass, idiot.&quot; That's when I couldn't hold it in and burst out laughing…
Shani, that was terribly risky. How did it end?
They walked me home. As they were leaving, I heard the &quot;invisible&quot; one say that their operation against Salamandra had failed… That's it.
You said you know who these people were?
There were Foltest's secret police, pathetic little spies. When we first met, in Oxenfurt, I helped you evade some Redanian agents. The Temerian ones aren't all that different…
True, but the situation now is nothing like Oxenfurt. Ah, college days!
No problem.
Geralt! How did you find me here?
You said you'd stay in Vizima.
Ah, right... I work in a hospital, I'm up to my ears in work.
I didn't want to disturb you.
Geralt! Finally, you found me.
Indeed.
How did you get past the old hag?
Talking about that nice old lady downstairs?
Come on… that hag has made my life a hell.
Girls your age should be happily married, darning their good husband's socks.
Yeah, that's probably what she thinks.
Is your rent low at least?
Mean old hag… should've kicked the bucket years ago.
Hey, how can you say that… it's not her fault she was brought up that way.
But…
Someone your age should have some respect for tradition.
Shani, I…
I'm disappointed. I don't want to talk about it.
Old people are like that.
True, at least my rent is low... doctors are paid so little in Temeria that most of them have gone abroad…
You stayed.
Someone had to.
Anyway…
Geralt, we need to talk.
Right, what is it?
There was a fight at the hospital, some people died. Why do I have the impression you were somehow involved?
Geralt! Explain yourself!
I wanted to question a prisoner, alas a few thugs entered and interrupted our chat. It was their bodies the guard later found.
Know that I don't like it. But I'll tell you something anyway. I overheard the prisoner was transferred to a safe place. Hope that helps.
Thank you, Shani, for your help and understanding.
Always there for you.
Yes?
What about this party?
Invited anyone yet?
Hmm.. not really...
Get to it! We're waiting for you.
I have some celandine for you.
Great… You deserve our gratitude... mine and everyone else's.
No biggy.
As you wish… Let me know if you need anything.
Can I help in any way?
Actually… I'd like to ask you a favor.
I'm all ears.
Dandelion… remember Dandelion? Well… we've been trying to organize a get together for a while...
A get together?
Yeah, to talk about old times, have a few drinks… one thing, though.
Lacking the drinks?
Right, and since we haven't seen each other in a while, I don't want to treat him to mediocre booze.
What do you need?
Cherry vodka for Dandelion, rose wine for me… and something for you.
I'll see what I can do.
I don't have time now, maybe I can help you later.
No problem, I'm in no hurry.
I brought the booze.
Splendid! Bring a date, definitely!
See you at the party!
About the gift…
Oh, Geralt. It's so beautiful. I would've given you the stupid Sephirot, or whatever it's called, anyway... I didn't expect you to find such a beautiful ring for me.
I'm glad you like it.
And please accept this amulet from me...
For luck.
I'm still waiting for the gold ring. I won't be so keen to part with my amulet if I don't get that ring.
I remember, Shani.
I have a problem…
Yes?
I need your help with an autopsy...
Autopsy? Since when do you deal with stuff like this?
I need to know how he died. I'm investigating Salamandra.
All right. Just remember I'm not a coroner. You'll have to interpret whatever we find. The better you prepare the more you'll learn. We'll meet in the evening. In the meantime, look around town and gather as many clues as you can.
Right. I'll sniff around.
You have to get the body from the gravedigger. Good luck finding clues and see you in the evening. We'll meet at the hospital.
See you.
Any ideas on where I might learn something that would help with the autopsy?
Ask Vincent Meis, he might tell you something interesting. But the written word will be your best source. Look for books on anatomy and pathology.
I heard you saw Cöen.
That's right… how did you know?
I found his sword...
All I know is he died during the Battle at Brenna… on my operating table.
You were a medic at Brenna?
Yea. I worked alongside a surgeon named Rusty, best doctor I've ever known...
You knew him?
He died when the Catriona plague erupted... in Maribor. He was a halfling but could operate like no one else...he made everything seem simple.
Stitch red to red, yellow to yellow, white to white, and everything will be all right. Aa, you don't understand...
Sorry, Shani... I didn't know him. Do you know anything about this sword?
No... if you want to learn something, visit the dwarf named Zoltan Chivay. His knowledge of weapons is unmatched.
Speaking of our adventures in Oxenfurt, what did Dandelion actually interrupt when he climbed through that window?
You dork. Thought you'd never ask... Let me remind you.
Hi, Shani.
I wanted to talk to you.
Of course, what is it?
Sometimes I dream about the Battle of Brenna. It's different every time, like in dreams. The massacre, our tent, blood, screaming…
Mhm..
You know what's worst? I wake up refreshed and don't care at all. I think I've gotten used to suffering, I have a feeling that something inside me is broken, do you understand me?
I do.
Thanks, Geralt. Sometimes it's just good to share your thoughts with someone.
Don't mention it.
Sorry, I need to tend to something important. We'll talk another time.
Bye.
Hi, Geralt.
