Come with me if you like. We'll talk there.
Get out of here, mutant! It's strictly business with you from now on. Be at the banquet if you want anything from me, but don't come around here anymore.
You're a doll, darling, the only one I can count on, the only one I can trust. That was a lot to endure. Now comes your reward. The little one's sleeping, so now I can show you some real magic...
Well… the test results are positive, you seem to be at full strength. It's that unusual witcher's metabolism…
Triss… How did I get here? How is it you're here?
Pure coincidence. I was studying magical anomalies and I happened on a false trail set up by the charlatain Kalkstein.
So you found me in the swamp? What was going on there?
I don't know. The alchemist is still there, studying the solid stone. But there's nothing there. The greater anomalies are here in Vizima.
Magic anomalies? In Vizima?
Yes, it would be nice if you could help me figure it out. But let's get back to your health.
E-hem… I thought the test results were positive.
You misunderstand. Physically, I see nothing wrong. It's your mind that's worrying me.
Geralt?
I found a strange, magical stone at the Salamanders' hideout.
Interesting... let me see...
Geralt! Wonderful! It's a telecommunicator... It leaves a magical trace of any transfers…
Try plain English. I'm only a witcher.
If we're lucky we can use this to find the Salamander hideout!
So...
Can you tell me about the magic communicator I found at the Salamandra base?
It chiefly enables conversations over relatively short distances. With some knowledge of magic, one could draw quite a bit of information from it. If the Salamanders were using it to communicate with headquarters, they'll have no problem localizing it...
Short distances, interesting. Can you check the last communication?
No problem. The communicator sent a signal to ......... Geralt, is there anything I should know?
I have a hunch. I'll check it out and let you know. Don't worry about it for now.
All right. Take care of yourself.
I've found us some allies.
Geralt, before we take off in pursuit of Salamandra, I need to figure out these magic anomalies.
Maybe I can help you. Care to tell me more about them?
We'll talk later.
Fine, but we need to get Alvin back first, and guarantee his safety.
We'll talk later.
Great. The meeting with Leuvaarden is a perfect opportunity for a discussion.
It's agreed, then.
Geralt... you should know that we've picked a fight with some powerful people. This discussion... it could change a lot.
What do you mean?
If you have any unfinished business left in Vizima, tend to it now. And prepare. Later it may be too late.
I'm ready. Let's meet at the New Narakort.
I'll inform all the interested parties.
How do you know who...
I'm a sorceress, remember? And you think so loud I can't help reading your mind.
Fine. I'll come see you later.
Explain.
You raved a lot. I had to read your mind to know where your injuries came from and what poisons you decided to take this time.
I'm sure you read beyond that.
There was no way not to, your thinking was quite loud... In any case, I do know about your recent adventures...
Can you do anything about my amnesia?
Restoring your memory? Probably not. And I doubt anyone can. There is a shade of chance...
It can hardly get worse. A shade of chance that what?
From what I saw in your mind, I strongly believe you should create a stable personality model.
A roundabout, immanent euphemism?
Geralt, please, I'm trying to explain something important.
All right, but avoid the scientific babble if you can...
I think you should take a specific position toward the problems of this world. It doesn't matter what that position is, just that it's specific. A strong identity may help restore your memory, and you're sure not to lose anything more.
Can't you just tell me what you saw?
No. I don't want you to turn into my vision of Geralt, I want you to decide for yourself who you are - without looking back.
Do you mean I should not take an interest in the past?
Exactly, your memories will return in due course.
We'll see.
You said something earlier about magical anomalies.
Various events can cause them, but more importantly they can be the cause of true evil.
That last time I felt this way, it turned out you and a certain sorceress were trying to capture a genie. Half the city was destroyed. You probably have no recollection, but things were really hanging on the edge.
True… I don't remember a thing.
I'll need your help. These little trinkets are magic sensors. I need you to place them around Vizima. They'll help us locate the anomaly's source.
Right... Hmmm, give me the sensors. I'll take care of it.
My Geralt, always eager to please.
That's what friends are for.
Let's talk about this another time, Triss.
Hmmm, I saw a perfect wall cavity in the Merchants' Quarter near Town Hall. Place one there, a second in the Temple Quarter near the entrance to the sewers, and the third in Vizima's cemetery.
That will give us a typical Radcliff triangle. You know, of course, that triangulation is most effective in these cases.
I have the royal edicts.
Incredible… they're actually signed. Seems Thaler is lying… Though these signatures don't seem authentic.
Can you check that?
I'll send them off to an expert. We'll have to be patient…
I placed the sensors where you asked.
I know. As soon as you did, I scanned all of Vizima and know where the anomaly's coming from.
Where?
A child, a small boy named Alvin. He's at Lebioda's Hospital and...
How can a child be the source of an anomaly?
You've forgotten everything. That child is a source, he has great powers. Also, Elder Blood probably courses through his veins.
Elder Blood?
The Gift of Lara. I'll explain later, now we must take care of Alvin and restrict his destructive abilities. Go to the hospital and bring him here.
All right, I'll see what I can do. Will they let me take him from the hospital?
That might be a problem. Your little friend, that dumb nymphet Shani, refuses to hand him over to me. She says I know nothing about children and won't know how to take care of him. She has no idea what she and the entire city face if the kid spins out of control.
I haven't the strength to talk to her. She's your friend. Why don't you take care of it? I know you know how. I'll be very grateful.
I took the child to Shani. I think she'll take better care of him than you.
What have you done?! You ungrateful bastard! Did she put out for you or something? You're like all the rest! I don't want to know you, you fucking mutant. Get lost before I turn you into the pig you really are. And that redheaded bitch hasn't seen the last of me!
I spoke with Shani. She understood, but didn't take it too well.
She has only herself to blame. She could've given up Alvin earlier.
Triss, about Alvin...
Dandelion told me. Why is Alvin with Shani?
It's complicated. I'll tell you once I've had a chance to speak with her.
All right, do it quickly, though. I can't wait to hear.
About Alvin…
Mhm.
Is Alvin safe?
Yes. Dandelion brought him to me and told me what happened. I'm proud of you.
I knew I could count on you. Is Shani clear about this? No? Go to that redheaded bitch. Tell her the boy is with me and I have no intention of giving him up. Do this once and for all, please.
I'll try, though I think I'd rather face a gang of Salamanders…
How did you get here?
Long story… When you guys went chasing around everywhere…
Which proved effective.
I don't know how… In any case, I contacted some people and decided to look for Salamandra using unconventional methods.
Get any results?
Very good ones. We know quite a lot about them, and you'll learn it all in due time.
Why not now?
Nothing's free, witcher. To get this information, I had to agree to few things, including not divulging it to you.
You must be patient.
Do you remember discussing my identity?
Sure. Any progress?
I'm still analyzing it. No conclusions yet.
Who were you talking to through the teleport?
You heard me? Ah… this and that. Sorceress business. Nothing important.
it sounded serious.
Don't fret about that too much, Geralt. I had to give a few people my promise to learn something about Salamandra.
Nevertheless…
Trust me. It was nothing important.
What's with the passes?
Well… in addition to a quarantine, the authorities in Vizima have also imposed martial law.
I missed something.
That's because it only covers the Merchants' Quarter, which you could not enter.
What does martial law have to do with the passes?
Theoretically, only the quarter's residents can move about it freely. Luckily, I have a house here, so I only found it moderately difficult to get a pass.
What about the one for me?
Well… I had to register you as a resident of my home.
Falsely, of course.
Farewell.
See you… Oo! I almost forgot the most important thing!
What?
Someone would like to see you. The merchant Leuvaarden, an important guy. He hosts banquets at the New Narakort.
I'm not too hot on banquets…
A lot of important people will be there.
I dunno…
Including Princess Adda, from whom you lifted the curse. Apparently, she's just slightly obsessed with you…
I'll think about it.
And I'll be there…
You've convinced me… Maybe I can gather some information there.
The banquet starts at six this evening. Here's a pass that allows you to stay in the Merchants' Quarter.
A pass?
See you.
I've decided to help Yaevinn and the Scoia'tael against the Order of the Flaming Rose.
Interesting. I assume you gave it some thought, but instinct prompted your behavior. Why did you decide to help the nonhumans?
I identify with nonhumans in some way. They're despised outcasts like I am.
You haven't changed a bit, Geralt. Contempt and solitude continue to plague you, though you rarely admit it. I don't know if you did the right thing, but I do think that's what the Geralt I knew would have done.
Fine, enough chatter.
Ha! Embarrased? All right, we won't discuss it any further, but remember to consider your choices carefully.
I'm neither embarrassed nor impatient. I just want my memory back as soon as possible.
I understand the nonhumans' ideals and agree with them, but only up to a certain point, of course. Elves and dwarves are fighting for freedom and dignity, and that cause deserves assistance.
How noble. But what of the famous witchers' neutrality? I think it has been overcome by what has always gotten you into trouble – your sense of decency. Oh, Geralt, if you could just remember how often you were led by noble urgings of the heart, you wouldn't be surprised at your decision.
Do you think I did as I would have before I lost my memory?
I do. And that's the Geralt I like.
Ah, Triss, I don't think our discussions will help me regain my memory.
I don't really know why I helped them.
Maybe you were guided by instinct.
Perhaps.
Well, that doesn't tell me much about your memory problem. I hope we'll learn more in the future.
We'll see.
I agreed to help Siegfried and the Order of the Flaming Rose. I wonder if the old Geralt would have done the same.
Interesting. Why did you help the Order? What led you to do that?
I've concluded that I'm a human being. They mutated me at Kaer Morhen, but they didn't strip me of my humanity. What's more, I was created to protect people.
An obsession with humanity and a witcher's calling? I should've known.
Did I act like the old Geralt?
You never spoke of these things openly, but the amnesia may also have removed your mental blocks. You're more open than before. We can consider that progress.
If you say so.
Consider your decisions and discuss them. We're well on our way to bringing back your memories.
I'll try.
I don't understand nonhumans. Of the two evils I prefer the Order.
I think it was the voice of reason. You were always bothered by loudmouths and fools leading the young to certain death. I'm not surprised you chose the Order.
Was I really that sensible?
Afraid so. Though I admit you followed your heart at many crucial junctures in life.
So far my confessions haven't restored my memory.
Patience, we're on the right path.
Hope so.
I decided to help the Order... for no specific reason.
And I think you had reasons, you're just not aware of them yet. I can't help you with that.
Fine, I'll think about my decision.
